




Contents
Foreword	4
Introduction	4
1	Scope	5
2	References	5
3	Definitions and abbreviations	6
3.1	Definitions	6
3.2	Abbreviations	7
4	Jurisdiction specific Lawful Interception requirements	8
5	General interception lifecycle and model	8
5.1	Lifecycle	8
5.2	Model	8
6	Fundamental requirements	9
6.1	Overview	9
6.2	Identification	9
6.3	Detect and Capture	11
6.4	Delivery	14
6.5	Lawful compliance	15
6.6	Security	16
Annex A (informative): Guidance on regulatory and capability Issues	18
A.1	Introduction	18
A.2	Service specific obligations	18
A.3	Roaming obligations clarification	18
A.4	Delivery	18
A.5	Quality	18
A.6	Security	18
A.7	Mission Critical (MC)	19
Annex B (informative): Change history	20

Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x	the first digit:
1	presented to TSG for information;
2	presented to TSG for approval;
3	or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y	the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z	the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.
Introduction
The present document has been produced by the 3GPP TSG SA to enable standardisation of Lawful Interception (LI) of telecommunications. The present document provides requirements for Lawful Interception. 
Laws of individual nations and regional institutions, and sometimes licensing and operating conditions, define a need to intercept targeted telecommunications traffic and related information in communication systems. Lawful Interception applies in accordance with applicable national or regional laws and technical regulations.
1	Scope
The present document specifies Stage 1 Lawful Interception requirements for 3GPP networks and services.
Regional interception requirements can be satisfied by meeting the correct subset of requirements from the present document. Which CSP services are subject to Lawful Interception is defined by national regulations.
The presence of a requirement in the present document does not in itself imply or mandate that a 3GPP operator has an obligation to implement any network service capability, which is not otherwise required to meet LI obligation compliance in relation to specific regulated services, offered by that 3GPP operator. Only those specific requirements and sub-clauses of the present document which are applicable to specific network and/or service capabilities implemented in a 3GPP operator's network will be considered in scope for that operator. In all cases, laws and regulations define which requirements are applicable to 3GPP operators in each country relative to the services offered by each 3GPP operator.
As such not all requirements in the present document will apply in all national jurisdictions or to all 3GPP operator deployments (e.g. if an operator does not offer voice services, then voice LI requirement in the present document do not apply).
The interception system defined in the present document provides LI based on specific target identifiers.
2	References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
-	References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
-	For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
-	For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1]	3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2]	ETSI GS NFV-SEC 012: "Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3; Security; System architecture specification for execution of sensitive NFV components".
[3]	3GPP TS 33.127: "Lawful interception architecture and functions".
[4]	3GPP TS 33.128: "Handover interface for Lawful Interception (LI)".
[5]	Void
[6]	ISO/IEC 27000: "Information technology; Security techniques; Information security management systems - Overview and vocabulary".
[7]	ETSI TS 102 165-1: "Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (CYBER); Methods and protocols; Part 1: Method and proforma for Threat, Risk, Vulnerability Analysis".
[8]	ATIS-I-0000068: "Evolution to an Artifical Intelligence Enabled Network" (White Paper - September 2018).
[9]	ETSI TS 104 007: "Lawful Interception Architecture".
3	Definitions and abbreviations
3.1	Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Activation/Deactivation: The large time scale action (i.e. on the same order as subscription lifetimes, that encompass multiple sessions, e.g. subscribing to “call hold” service) that turns on/off a service or feature for a user so that it is ready to act or will no longer be available to act. In the case of lawful interception, this may apply to all or a particular subset of communications. (See also Invocation).
Artificial Intelligence: Artificial Intelligence is typically considered to be a system that performs some form of reasoning, planning or object management, using knowledge as well as perceived information that, in the past, required human intervention. (Definition from ATIS-I-0000068, White Paper "Evolution to an Artificial Intelligence Enabled Network" [8]).
Capture: The action taken by the CSP to separate and copy the communications associated with a target identifier.
Cell Supplemental Information (CSI): Information the CSP may have about a cell including cell site information (e.g. physical location, azimuth, mobility, facility type) and cell radio related information.
Content of Communication (CC): Information exchanged between two or more users of a communications service, excluding intercept related information. This includes information which may, as part of some communications service, be stored by one user for subsequent retrieval by another.
Context of Communication: Information needed to recreate the state known in the CSP's network of the Target Communication. For example, the direction of initiation on communication (to or from), direction of data flow (to or from), direction association with the identifiers to and from addresses), actions taken by the CSP on behalf of the target or identity translations.
Communication Service Provider (CSP): The entity that owns or operates the network that provides a service to a subscriber.
Delivery: The action taken by the CSP to perform the necessary correlation and processing of communications associated with a target, and delivering the result to the LEA.
De-Provisioning: The action taken by the CSP, that may be in response to an interception termination request from the LEA, or automatically once the Warrant period has expired, to remove from its network functions the information and reporting pertaining to the target.
Detection: The action taken by the CSP to identify communications associated with a target identifier.
Group Identifier: A group identity provides a reference to a defined group of one or more users. The use of this group identity applies to all users in the group.
Interception: The actions of Provisioning, Detection, Capture, Delivery, and De-Provisioning.
Interception Product: The Intercept Related Information (IRI) and/or Content of Communication (CC) generated as a result of isolating the target's communications or identities for the purpose of Delivery to the requesting LEA.
Intercept Related Information (IRI): Information or data associated with communication services involving the Target Identity, specifically communication associated information or data (e.g. unsuccessful communication attempts), service associated information or data, and Location Information.
Interception Area (IA): Geographical area where Location Dependent Interception (LDI) applies.
Invocation: The short, intra-session time scale action (i.e. the application of the hold feature in the middle of a call session) in which a service or feature is called to act. In the case of Lawful Interception, this may apply to all or a particular subset of communications. (See also Activation).
Lawful Access Location Services (LALS): A service provided by a CSP to an LEA in which action is performed by a CSP to obtain a target's Location Information by means of Location Services (LCS), and to provide that information to an LEA.
Lawful Interception (LI): Actions taken by the CSP that include: Provisioning the Target Identity in the network to enable isolation of target communications (separating it from other users' communications), duplicating the communications for the purpose of sending the copy to the LEA, and handing over the Interception Product to the LEA that served the CSP with the Warrant. An Interception is associated with exactly one Warrant.
LI Delivery Latency: The time between isolation in the Point of Interception and Delivery of the Interception Product to the LEA at the agreed point of handover.
Location Dependent Interception (LDI): Interception that is dependent on the target location, extra context information such as the country of registration (e.g. of a Vehicle), or additional territorial requirements (e.g. international maritime and aeronautical zones).
Location Information: Information relating to the geographic/ physical or logical location of a target.
Mediation and Delivery Function (MDF): Functions that convert the CSP internal formats and protocols to the agreed formats and protocols for handover from the CSP to the LEA.
Moving Cell: A cell which is intended to provide service while moving in relation to the surface of the earth.
Production: The actions of Detection, Capture, and Delivery.
Provisioning: The action taken by the CSP to insert into its network functions information that identifies the target and the specific communication services of interest to the LEA, sourced from the LEA provided Warrant.
Target Communication: All communications, communication attempts (successful or not), and network interactions that originate from, are directed to, are controlled by, or are associated with, the target's identifiers, equipment, facilities or services, including actions taken by the network on behalf of the target, that are available in the CSP's network.
Target Identity: A network or service identity that uniquely identifies a target for interception from all other non-targets within one or more CSP services. One target may have one or several target identities. The Target Identity can be a long term subscription based identity, a short term network identity, a public identity or an internal (private) identity.
Third Party: A resource or entity which is not fully owned and fully controlled by the CSP.
Warrant: The formal mechanism to require Lawful Interception from an LEA served to the CSP on a specific target. Depending on jurisdiction also known as e.g. intercept request, intercept order, lawful order, court order or judicial order (in association with supporting legislation).
3.2	Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ADMF	Administration Function
CAT	Customized Alerting Tone
CC	Content of Communication
CRS	Customized Ringing Signal
CSI	Cell Supplemental Information
CSP	Communications Service Provider
gNB	5G NodeB
GUTI	Globally Unique Temporary Identifier
HeNB	Home eNodeB
H(e)NB	HNB and HeNB
HNB	Home NodeB
IA	Interception Area
IRI	Intercept Related Information
LALS	Lawful Access Location Services
LDI	Location Dependent Interception
LEA	Law Enforcement Agency
LEMF	Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
LI	Lawful Interception 
MCPTT	Mission-Critical Push-To-Talk
MDF	Mediation and Delivery Function
NGSO	Non-GeoStationary Orbit
NTN	Non-Terrestrial Network
PEI	Permanent Equipment Identifier
POI	Point Of Interception
SIP URI	Session Initiation Protocol Uniform Resource Identifier
SUCI	SUbscription Concealed Identifier
SUPI	SUbscription Permanent Identifier
TEL URI	TELephone numbers Uniform Resource Identifier
UTC	Coordinated Universal Time
4	Jurisdiction specific Lawful Interception requirements
Lawful Interception requirements are subject to jurisdiction specific regulations and should be interpreted accordingly.
Requirements called out in jurisdiction specific Lawful Interception regulatory requirements are supported by the system defined in the present document.
Lawful Interception requirements often have national requirements specific to local jurisdictions relating to operational aspects of interception (e.g., interception equipment location and interception scope).
5	General interception lifecycle and model
5.1	Lifecycle
The Lawful Interception lifecycle is described in clause 4 of ETSI TS 104 007 [9].
5.2	Model
Figure 5.2-1 depicts the general Interception model. Lawful Interception (LI) is implemented in a 3GPP Communication Service Provider (CSP) network by the logical elements shown in the figure. Detailed LI architecture and functions are found in TS 33.127 [3], while Delivery details are found in TS 33.128 [4].
The Administration Function (ADMF) provides the CSP's administrative functions for the LI capability, including Provisioning and De-Provisioning the Point(s) Of Interception (POI(s)) and the Mediation and Delivery Function (MDF).
A POI detects and captures the Target Communication, based on information provided by the ADMF, passing the Interception Product to the Mediation and Delivery Function.
The MDF performs any necessary mediation of the Interception Product before delivering it on to the LEA's Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility (LEMF).
The LEMF is the logical element in the LEA which receives the Interception Product.

Figure 5.2-1: Generic Lawful Interception model
6	Fundamental requirements
6.1	Overview
In the present document some requirements are cumulative in nature, and rely on implicit compliance with other requirements.
The network shall be able to provide a Lawful Interception capability which meets the relevant regulatory and operational obligations. In general, this gives rise to the following high-level summary requirements:
-	Target Identification: The CSP shall use the Target Identity provided in the Warrant to Provision interception of the target. The CSP shall ensure that the Target Identity is converted when necessary, by the network, to corresponding identities used in the network.
-	Detect: The network shall be able to Detect all content and metadata (required to produce IRI) associated with targeted communications as provided in the network, in order for the LEA to fully understand the Context of Communication.
-	Capture: The network shall be able to Capture all content and metadata (required to produce IRI) associated with targeted communications as provided in the network, in order for the LEA to fully understand the Context of Communication.
-	Delivery: The network shall be able to Deliver the Interception Product in agreed format to the LEA, such that the LEA can fully understand the Interception Product as provided by the CSP.
-	Lawful: The CSP's Lawful Interception capability shall comply with the relevant obligations, restrictions and reporting regimes in the Warrant, including (but not limited to) period, duration, locality, services.
-	Security: Lawful Interception by the CSP shall be undetectable by any party not explicitly authorized to have knowledge of it, and cannot be modified, altered or degraded by such a party.
6.2	Identification
R6.2 - 10	User Identification - The CSP shall maintain and be able to report (as required) an association among subscription identifiers or MEs or UEs registered on the network, using private or public, long term or short term available identifiers, such that LI can be performed at any time the target interacts with, or acts within, the CSP network, or the CSP network acts on behalf of the user. This requirement shall not be interpreted to conflict with regulations pertaining to unauthenticated emergency calls.
R6.2 - 20	LI User Group Identities - The CSP shall be able to perform LI based on user Group Identifiers (e.g. Closed Subscriber Group (CSG), H(e)NB, ProSe relay, Conference Call).
R6.2 - 30	Group Communication Identification - The CSP shall be able to perform LI on group communication using the identity of the group communication instance (e.g. 3 way call, conference call, MCPTT group call).
R6.2 - 40	Target Role in Communication - The CSP shall be able to intercept based on the target identifier, regardless of the target's role in the communication.
R6.2 - 50	Target Communication Identification - The CSP shall be able to distinguish specific usages of the network by the target (e.g. access or service) from all other usages in the network, based on the target identifier.
R6.2 - 60	Long Term Identifiers - The CSP shall be able to intercept based on long term identifiers.
NOTE:	Examples for Long Term Identifiers for subscriptions, without being exhaustive, are IMSI or SUPI. Examples for Long Term Identifiers for devices, without being exhaustive, are IMEI or PEI.
R6.2 - 70	Short Term Identifiers - The CSP shall be able to intercept based on valid short-term identifiers.
NOTE:	Examples for Short Term Identifiers, without being exhaustive, are GUTI or TMSI.
R6.2 - 80	Private Identifiers - The CSP shall be able to intercept based on private identifiers.
NOTE:	An example for a Private Identifier, without being exhaustive, is IMPI.
R6.2 - 90	Public Identifiers - The CSP shall be able to intercept based on valid public identifiers.
NOTE:	Examples for Public Identifiers, without being exhaustive, are SIP URI or TEL URI.
R6.2 - 100	Short to Long Term Identifier Mapping - The CSP shall be able to translate a valid short-term identifier to the corresponding long-term identifiers in near real time and provide this information to the LEA.
R6.2 - 110	Long to Short Term Identifier Mapping - When a long-term identifier is provided in the Warrant, the network shall be able to perform interception based on corresponding short-term identifiers.
R6.2 - 120	Non-Local Target Identification - The CSP shall be able to isolate communications passing through its network based on a visible Target Identity, when the target identifier is not assigned, or managed, by the CSP.
R6.2 - 130	Target Service Subscription Change - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA of target's service subscription changes.
R6.2 - 135	Target De-Provisioned - The CSP shall be able to report that the long term Target Identity has been de-provisioned from the subscriber management database.
R6.2 - 140	Target Service Metadata Change - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA of target's service association change events such as change of identifiers (e.g. association in a group call).
R6.2 - 150	Targeted Group Communication - The CSP shall be able to ensure that any changes in the membership in a targeted group communication are updated in the short or long term identifiers used to perform interception.
R6.2 - 160	Target Mapping - The CSP shall be able report to the LEA parameters used for interception, including any subsequent modifications (e.g. target identifier derivation).
R6.2 - 170	Isolation - The CSP shall be able to isolate and intercept Target Communications, as specified in the Warrant.
R6.2 - 180	Completeness - The CSP shall be able to intercept all Target Communications as specified in the Warrant.
R6.2 - 190	CSP managed Third Party Functions - To the extent that a CSP manages or controls a Third Party network function (e.g. relay or forwarding functions), the CSP shall be able to perform LI on the function.
6.3	Detect and Capture
R6.3 - 10	Access Level Interception - The CSP shall be able to perform network access level interception in both the core and on the edge of the network (e.g. IP-CAN level interception).
R6.3 - 20	Service Level Interception - The CSP shall be able to perform service level interception in both the core and on the edge of the network (e.g. IMS based VoIP).
R6.3 - 30	Multi Party Service Interception - CSP shall be able to report the multi-party service Interception Product of targeted group communications and its users.
R6.3 - 40	Third Party Assisted Services - If a CSP uses Third Parties as part of its service provision, the CSP shall be responsible for ensuring that the overall service complies with applicable LI regulations and requirements.
R6.3 - 50	Third Party ME or UE Interception - To the extent that a CSP manages a Third Party ME or UE, the CSP shall be able to report communications of such Third Party ME or UE (e.g. status of devices with a relay or forward function).
R6.3 - 60	Third Party ME or UE Users Interception - To the extent that a CSP manages Third Party ME or UE, the CSP shall be able to report communications of the end users connected to the CSP network via a Third Party ME or UE that is managed by the CSP (e.g. status of users communicating via ME or UE with a relay or forward function).
R6.3 - 70	Modification of Services - The CSP shall be able to report any change to any target service settings, as known to the CSP.
R6.3 - 80	Multiple Services per Target - The CSP shall be able to simultaneously perform LI for multiple services for a given target.
R6.3 - 90	Multiple Targets - The CSP shall be able to simultaneously perform intercepts on multiple independent targets.
R6.3 - 100	Multiple LEAs - The CSP shall be able to simultaneously perform independent intercepts for any given target under different warrants.
R6.3 - 110	Roaming Targets - The visited CSP shall be able to perform interception of inbound roaming targets.
R6.3 - 120	Roaming – Outbound - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA whenever the CSP becomes aware that the target has left, or entered, a visited network.
R6.3 - 130	Roaming – Inbound - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA whenever the CSP becomes aware that the inbound roaming target has entered, or has left, the network.
R6.3 - 140	Serving CSP change - When the target changes serving CSP, the CSP that is served the Warrant shall be able to provide the LEA with the identity of the new CSP if known.
R6.3 - 141	Serving CSP change / returning to HPLMN - When the target returns to the HPLMN, the home CSP that is served the Warrant shall be able to provide the LEA with the identity of the VPLMN from which the target has returned if known.
R6.3 - 150	Roaming Identifiers Visited CSP - The visited CSP shall be able to obtain and validate the long term 3GPP identifiers of all inbound roamers from the home CSP regardless of the use of privacy mechanisms (based on roaming agreements).
R6.3 - 160	Roaming Identifiers Home CSP - The home CSP shall provide the long term 3GPP identifiers to the visited CSP for outbound roamers (based on roaming agreements).
R6.3 - 170	Outbound Roaming Home Network - CSPs shall be able to intercept its outbound roamers, if the communication passes through the home CSP's network.
R6.3 - 180	Access Network Identity - The CSP shall provide the LEA the identity of the 3GPP or non 3GPP Access Network as known by the CSP.
R6.3 - 190	Location - The CSP shall be able to obtain and report the location of the target.
R6.3 - 200	Location Triggers - The CSP shall be able to obtain and report the target location at certain network events associated with the target.
R6.3 - 210	Communication Location Reporting - The CSP shall be able to obtain and report the target location at start and end of communication, as well as during the communication including periodically and per event.
R6.3 - 220	Location Reporting - The CSP shall be able to obtain and report the target location for both active and idle MEs or UEs triggered either by UE-Action (e.g. UE cell site change) or on a periodic basis or on demand by the LEA.
R6.3 - 230	Location Reporting Independency - Location Information may be reported as part of interception of a service (e.g. VoLTE, RCS), or independently.
R6.3 - 240	Location Accuracy - The CSP shall report the most accurate target location available to the CSP.
R6.3 - 245	Radiolocation Assistance - The CSP shall be able to provide information to assist the LEA to perform radiolocation of target UEs.
R6.3 - 250	Multiple Location Sources - The CSP shall be able to report the source of each Location Information report provided to the LEMF (e.g. cell ID, GPS).
R6.3 - 260	Location Positioning Methods - The CSP shall be able to report the positioning method used to obtain Location Information (e.g. network-based, UE-based, access-based).
R6.3 - 270	Additional Location Information - The CSP shall be able to provide additional Location Information of the target beyond cell site identifier (e.g. altitude, civic address, geo-coordinates), if available.
R6.3 - 271	Cell Details - The CSP shall be able to report the Cell Supplemental Information (CSI) if available.
R6.3 - 272	Location Translation - The CSP shall be able to provide a logical Location Information (e.g. cell ID) or a non-standard position format (e.g. a local cartesian coordinate system with an indeterminate origin), the CSP shall be able to either provide off-line means for this location to be converted to a standard geo-location, or provide the converted geo-location in one of the standard TS 33.128 formats in the same report, if available.
R6.3 - 273	Moving Cell Indication - The CSP shall be able to provide information to the LEA, so that the LEA can determine if a given cell is a Moving Cell.
R6.3 - 274	Location of a Moving Cell - The CSP shall be able to provide the means for the LEA to determine the location of a Moving Cell at each point in time it is identified in Interception Product, on periodic basis or on demand by the LEA.
R6.3 - 280	Location Senescence - The CSP shall provide information that indicates when the location was determined (e.g. age of location, timestamp).
R6.3 - 290	Trusted/Untrusted Location - The Location Information reported to the LEMF shall be Location Information trusted by the 3GPP network (i.e. the Location Information is either 3GPP network derived or verified), if available. The CSP shall also be able to report and to verify where possible by the network Location Information from untrusted sources (e.g. user equipment provided).
R6.3 - 300	Location Trust Indication - The CSP shall be able to indicate to the LEA whether the Location Information is trusted or untrusted.
R6.3 - 310	Location Determination Indication - The CSP shall be able to indicate to the LEA whether the Location Information of the target is measured or projected.
R6.3 - 320	Non 3GPP access - For non 3GPP access the CSP shall be able to provide the identity and location of the non 3GPP access function serving the UE as known by the CSP.
R6.3 - 330	Roaming Location - In the case of inbound roaming, the visited CSP that was served a Warrant shall be able to provide Location Information without assistance from the home CSP.
R6.3 - 340	Location Changes in the Visited Network - In the case of roaming, the home CSP that was served a warrant shall be able to provide Location Information as visible in the home network.
R6.3 - 350	Location Requests - The home CSP shall be able to provide notification of target-related Location Information requests received from outside the home network when these requests are visible to the home network as part of normal network operations.
R6.3 - 360	LCS Use - The CSP shall be able to use LCS, if available, in support of LALS for an LCS-targetable UE (with or without target LCS subscription).
R6.3 - 370	LALS Reporting - The CSP shall be able to provide on-demand and periodic LALS reports of the target's location independent of the target's communication state.
R6.3 - 380	Up-to-date LALS location - LALS shall report either the current (updated) location, or if the current location is unavailable the last known location of a target's UE.
R6.3 - 390	LALS failure notification - If the location is unavailable, LALS shall be able to report a failure reason, as to why the location is unavailable.
R6.3 - 400	Target specificity - The CSP shall ensure no communications are intercepted other than those of, or associated with, the target's equipment, facilities or services.
R6.3 - 410	Service specificity - The CSP shall ensure that only the communication services specified by the Warrant are intercepted.
R6.3 - 420	Service Scope - All CSP based services shall be in scope of LI including mission critical services and non-mission critical services.
R6.3 - 430	Service Activation - The CSP shall report service Activation.
R6.3 - 440	Service Invocation - The CSP shall report service Invocation.
R6.3 - 450	Service Modification - The CSP shall report service modifications (e.g., changes to content, content descriptors, timing descriptors, group participation, copy of service content).
R6.3 - 460	Service Deactivation - The CSP shall report service Deactivation.
R6.3 - 470	Service Up/Download - The CSP shall report service related uploading or downloading.
R6.3 - 480	Service Access Method - The CSP shall report the access method used by the target to interact with the service (e.g., via ME, UE or web).
R6.3 - 490	Early Media - The CSP shall be able to intercept early media (e.g., CAT, CRS).
R6.3 - 500	Context Comprehensibility - The CSP shall include in Interception Product information that allows the LEA to establish the Context of Communications.
R6.3 - 510	Service Indication - The CSP shall include in Interception Product an indication of the communication service as known by the CSP network.
R6.3 - 520	Interdependency of IRI and CC - The CSP shall ensure IRI containing CC metadata is delivered in a timely and accurate manner such that it shall be possible to decode CC in real time.
R6.3 - 530	Reporting Post Session Established Digits - The CSP shall support extracting and reporting dialled digits after the session is established (e.g. user dialled, signalled) via the CSP services.
R6.3 - 540	Post Session Established Digit Reporting for IRI and CC Intercepts - The CSP shall be able to support extracting and reporting digits after the session is established for IRI-only intercepts, as well as for intercepts that report both IRI and CC. 
R6.3 - 550	Toggle for Post Session Established Digit Extraction - The CSP shall support the Post Session Established Digit Extraction capability with a toggle feature that can activate/deactivate this capability.
R6.3 - 560	LI Charging Event Records - The 3GPP system shall be able to generate LI charging event records.
R6.3 - 600	Location Verification for Non Terrestrial Network - The CSP shall be able to verify the GNSS location reported by the UE when connected via NTN.
R6.3 - 610	Location accuracy for Non Terrestrial Network - The accuracy of the network verified Location Information shall be as accurate as to the maximum extent similar to the one in terrestrial networks.
R6.3 - 620	Location Reporting of UE attached to Cell Relay - If a target UE is attached to a cell relay, the CSP shall be able to provide both the reported Location Information of the target and additional Location Information of the cell relay.
R6.3 - 630	Location Reporting of a Cell Relay - The CSP shall be able to report changes to the donor of the cell relay, including the donor node location upon donor cell handover.
6.4	Delivery
R6.4 - 10	LI Service Scope - The CSP shall only deliver Interception Product relating to specific CSP services which are specified implicitly or explicitly in the Warrant.
R6.4 - 15	Delivery of Multiple Services - The CSP shall be able to deliver Interception Product of multiple services (e.g., CSP provided voice, messaging services, internet access) for a single target.
R6.4 - 20	Context Correlation - The CSP shall be able to deliver information such that the LEA can correlate all CC and IRI to the Context of Communications.
R6.4 - 30	IRI to IRI Correlation - The CSP shall be able to deliver information such that all the IRI can be correlated with related IRI of the same Target Communication.
R6.4 - 40	CC to CC Correlation - The CSP shall be able to deliver information such that all the CC can be correlated with related CC of the same Target Communication.
R6.4 - 50	IRI and CC Correlation - The CSP shall be able to deliver information such that the related IRI and CC of the same Target Communication can be correlated.
R6.4 - 60	POI Identification - The CSP shall be able to report to the LEA the POI source(s) of the Interception Product.
R6.4 - 70	Delivery Reliability - The CSP shall be able to employ mechanisms (e.g. buffering) to limit the effect of Delivery network failures or limitations to prevent loss of Interception Product.
R6.4 - 80	Delivery Latency - The CSP shall ensure that the Interception Product is delivered to the LEA without undue delay (e.g. as defined by mutual agreement between the CSP and the LEA).
R6.4 - 90	Timestamping at Capture - The CSP shall timestamp the Interception Product (both IRI and CC) at Capture (at the POI) with a timestamp of precision, resolution, and accuracy commensurate with the performance of the intercepted service.
R6.4 - 100	Timestamping at Delivery - The CSP shall provide, where required for correlation purposes, the timestamp of the Delivery of the Interception Product (both IRI and CC) to the LEA, with a timestamp of precision, resolution, and accuracy commensurate with the performance of the intercepted service.
R6.4 - 110	UTC - The CSP shall provide all timestamps in UTC, or in local time with a time zone offset representing the difference between local time of day and UTC.
R6.4 - 120	Trusted Time - The CSP shall utilise a trusted time source for all LI related functions.
R6.4 - 130	Separate Delivery of services - The CSP shall be able to support delivering Interception Products for a particular service separately from other services' Interception Products (e.g. delivering SMS Interception Products independent of Voice Interception Product).
R6.4 - 140	Ordering - The CSP shall provide a means to enable the LEA to order the events of an intercepted service.
R6.4 - 150	Duplication - The CSP shall endeavour to limit duplicate Delivery of Interception Products in relation to the Warrant.
R6.4 - 160	Encryption - The CSP shall remove any encryption it provides or manages before Delivery of the Interception Product to the LEA, or shall provide the LEA the information necessary to decrypt the intercepted communications (e.g. keys, algorithms, parameters) included with the Interception Product.
R6.4 - 170	CSP provided Encryption Keys - If the CSP provides encryption keys to the target, but is not involved in the encryption service, the CSP shall provide the keys to the LEA.
R6.4 - 175	CSP provided Cryptographic Parameters in Roaming - When a home CSP’s subscriber is roaming, independently of whether or not the subscriber is an LI Target in the VPLMN, the home CSP shall provide to the visited CSP the means to decrypt user services which are encrypted between the ME and an entity outside the visited CSP and using cryptographic parameters established in the home CSP.
R6.4 - 180	Retroactive Decryption - The CSP shall ensure that the crypto keys, algorithm and parameters delivered to the LEA enable the LEA to decrypt encrypted Target Communications retroactively.
R6.4 - 190	Mid Communication Interception - The CSP shall retain sufficient key material for the duration of any communications such that it is possible to decrypt already ongoing communications, when using CSP provided or managed encryption.
R6.4 - 200	Encryption Key Material Lifecycle Destruction - Once key material specifically retained for LI purposes is no longer required, the CSP shall securely delete this key material.
R6.4 - 210	Encoding - The CSP shall be able to remove any specific CSP-controlled encoding before Delivery to the LEA, or provide the LEA the information necessary to decode the intercepted communications concurrently with Delivery of Interception Product.
R6.4 - 220	Compression - The CSP shall be able to remove any specific CSP-controlled compression before Delivery to the LEA, or provide the LEA the information necessary to decompress the intercepted communications concurrently with Delivery of Interception Product.
R6.4 - 230	Target Identifier Provenance - The CSP shall be able to indicate, for each target identifier provided to the LEA in the Interception Product, the provenance of the identifier, specifically, whether the identifier was provided to the CSP by the LEA (in the initial Warrant), whether it was observed in the intercepted communications, whether it was matched on by the function performing the isolation of communications, and whether it was associated with the target.
R6.4 - 240	Redaction - The CSP shall be able to redact information not authorized by the Warrant from Target Communications such that the authorized information is not altered for Delivery as Interception Product.
R6.4 - 250	Traffic Policies - The CSP shall be able to apply traffic policies specified by the LEA to provide additional specificity for the Delivery of Interception Product (e.g. to support bandwidth optimization).
6.5	Lawful compliance
R6.5 - 10	Interception Time Period - The CSP shall ensure that Lawful Interception is performed only for the time period as specified in the Warrant.
R6.5 - 20	Interception Temporary Reduction - The CSP shall be able to both suspend (e.g. when roaming outbound internationally, or crossing Interception Area boundary in case of Location Dependent Interception) and resume all or a portion of the obligated Interception Product during the Interception Period depending on conditions specified by the Warrant. The CSP shall be able to deliver any obligated Interception Product that falls within the conditions of the Warrant to the LEA. This includes Target Communications detected and captured before the moment of suspension and from the moment of resumption.
R6.5 - 30	LI Activation - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA of interception Activation.
R6.5 - 40	LI Changes - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA of changes related to interception (e.g., suspend or resume).
R6.5 - 50	LI Deactivation - The CSP shall be able to notify the LEA of interception Deactivation.
R6.5 - 60	Warrant Correlation - The CSP shall ensure all the Target Communications can be correlated with the Warrant.
R6.5 - 70	Recordkeeping - The CSP shall create and implement a record retention policy such that it is able to document the handling of the intercepts.
R6.5 - 80	Technological Invariance - The CSP shall be able to comply with the LI requirements in the present document regardless of network implementation technology or architectural options.
R6.5 - 90	Location Dependent Interception Management - The CSP shall be able to monitor the target’s location during on-going communications or for any mobility management event and deliver the Interception Product to the applicable jurisdiction when the target is in the Interception Area (IA).
R6.5 - 100	Lawful Interception Policy based on Location and Context - The CSP shall be able to locate each target in a trusted (verifiable, reliable) manner to determine the policy and Delivery based on jurisdiction requirements. The applicable policy can be defined based on the UE location and context.
6.6	Security
R6.6 - 05	Undetectability - Undetectability requirements for the CSP shall apply before, during and after the interception.
R6.6 - 10	Undetectability by the Target - The CSP shall perform interception in such a manner that the target is unable to detect interception is taking place.
R6.6 - 20	Undetectability by Other Users - The CSP shall perform interception in such a manner that no other users of CSP's services can detect that interception is taking place.
R6.6 - 30	Undetectability by Non-Authorized Parties - The CSP shall ensure that non-authorized personnel or processes (including automated or Artificial Intelligence based systems) that are part of the service cannot detect that interception is taking place.
R6.6 - 40	Undetectability across LEAs - The CSP shall perform interception in such a manner that no other LEA can detect that interception is taking place.
R6.6 - 50	Undetectability across CSPs - The CSP shall be able to perform interception such that no CSP not obligated by the Warrant can detect that interception is taking place.
R6.6 - 60	Undetectability Across Third Parties - The CSP shall be able to perform interception such that any Third Parties, not obligated by the Warrant, cannot detect that interception is taking place.
R6.6 - 70	Undetectability Across Countries - The CSP shall ensure the performance of interception in one country cannot be detected in other countries.
R6.6 - 80	Interception Capability Undetectability - The CSP shall ensure that only authorized parties can have knowledge of operational use of interception capabilities, interception-related hardware and software.
R6.6 - 90	LI Failure Impact on Target Services - A failure of LI shall not impact the target's, or other users' services.
R6.6 - 100	Recordkeeping Access - The CSP's record retention policy shall ensure that LI records of the CSP's management of interception (e.g. log files) are only visible to, and accessible by, authorized personnel.
R6.6 - 110	Alteration Prevention and Detection - The CSP shall employ a mechanism (e.g. cryptographic hashing) to provide assurance that LI records of the CSP's management of interception (e.g. log files) cannot be unnoticeably altered.
R6.6 - 120	Authenticity - The Delivery shall employ a mechanism to provide assurance of the authenticity of the delivered Interception Product from the CSP to the LEA.
R6.6 - 130	Confidentiality - The Delivery shall employ a mechanism to provide assurance of the confidentiality of the Interception Product from the CSP to the LEA.
R6.6 - 140	Integrity - The Delivery shall employ a mechanism to provide assurance that the Interception Product cannot be altered from the CSP to the LEA.
R6.6 - 150	Mutual Authentication - The CSP and the LEA shall provide assurance that any communications between the CSP and LEA can mutually authenticate.
R6.6 - 160	Virtualization Security - When CSP networks are virtualized, the CSP LI implementation shall at a minimum comply with the NFV security requirements specified in ETSI GS NFV-SEC 012 System specification for execution of sensitive NFV components [2].
R6.6 - 170	Limited Security POI - Where interception cannot be implemented at a fully secure location, such that physical and logical security of the POI cannot be guaranteed, the CSP shall employ methods to reduce LI security risks.
R6.6 - 180	Automated Network Management - The LI/LALS design and processes shall be compatible and transparent with automated network management (including Artificial Intelligence based systems).
Annex A (informative):
Guidance on regulatory and capability Issues
A.1	Introduction
This annex contains guidance for regulatory capability issues not being formal LI requirements.
A.2	Service specific obligations
In general, LI obligations are determined by the service being provided, regardless of how that service is implemented. For example, if a 3GPP network operator's voice service replaces a legacy CS voice service, or is equivalent to a CS voice service, then the same LI obligations as for the CS voice (e.g. providing interception capability for roamers) apply. This also applies to new 3GPP networks without legacy CS voice service.
A.3	Roaming obligations clarification
A visited network is generally not required to be able to intercept supplementary services (e.g. voicemail, home network based call forwarding) or 3rd party services not directly provided by the visited network. However, if such a service is observable in the visited network, national regulation may specify a minimum set of LI requirements for that service.
A.4	Delivery
The availability and reliability of the near-real-time transport mechanism of the LI data from the CSP to the LEA have to be addressed in bilateral agreement.
A mechanism to reduce Interception Product volume based on information received from the LEA (e.g. exclusion of particular flows such as movies) may be bilaterally agreed.
A.5	Quality
The Quality of Service (QoS), capacity, and integrity of the delivered IRI and CC need to be specified by a bilateral agreement between the CSP and the LEA.
In addition it is recommended to implement jurisdiction-appropriate auditing procedures.
A.6	Security
It is recommended to make risks assessment and management on LI system and LI deployment environment, based on industry best practise security and risk assessment techniques (e.g., ISO/IEC 27000 [6] family or TVRA of ETSI [7]) in order to reduce risks on such LI system to the minimum possible. Such assessment has to be made regularly and at any new major change in terms of services or networks function.
LI systems are recommended to be securely protected and any attack attempts should be logged. The accesses to any target list or LI functions, or to LI administrative system, are recommended to be isolated from the other network management and supervision. Secured access based control or ID based access control to LI system is recommended.
By bilateral agreement the security of the negotiated Delivery mechanism from the CSP to the LEA is to be specified.
The CSP is recommended to ensure the highest level of security of LI system if only part of the infrastructure (physical and virtual) is owned and/or managed by the CSP. This for example applies if a CSP does not manage all slices and to the degree of control of ownership is with partners or third parties.
For NFV compliance with NFV security ref Sec012 reference document [2], it is necessary to achieve compliance with the majority of requirements in the present document but it is by no means sufficient. Consequently, the CSP has to complement its LI implementation with sound operational security policies, processes, and procedures.
A choice should be considered for security optimised and/or LI functionality optimised implementations in situations where functionality for LI functions might be required at the edge (periphery) of the network (e.g. mission critical services, ProSE relays, (e)NB, H(e)NB, gNB).
A.7	Mission Critical (MC)
Where a mission critical service is provided for commercial service purposes, full LI compliance may apply.
Annex B (informative):
Change history
Change history
Date
Meeting
TDoc
CR
Rev
Cat
Subject/Comment
New version
2018-06
SA#80
SP-180291
-


Release 15 draft Approved at TSG SA#80
15.0.0
2018-12
SA#82
SP-180990
0001
1
F
Correction of abbreviation
15.1.0
2019-06
SA#84
SP-190344
0002
1
F
CSP provided keys in roaming
16.0.0
2019-06
SA#84
SP-190344
0003
1
C
Clarification of stage 1 requirement
16.0.0
2019-06
SA#84
SP-190344
0005
1
B
Notification of target de-provisioning
16.0.0
2019-06
SA#84
SP-190344
0006
1
B
Artificial Intelligence in network automation: draft rules related to LI in TS 33.126
16.0.0
2019-06
SA#84
SP-190346
0007
1
F
International Roaming Toggle
16.0.0
2019-06
SA#84
SP-190346
0009
1
F
Target Identifier Provenance Requirement
16.0.0
2019-09
SA#85
SP-190635
0013
3
F
Enhancements of requirements
16.1.0
2019-09
SA#85
SP-190662
0014
2
F
Delivery of Multiple Services
16.1.0
2020-07
SA#88-e
SP-200407
0015
1
F
General interception lifecycle and model
16.2.0
2020-12
SA#90-e
SP-200940
0016
1
F
Change on warrant definition
16.3.0
2021-06
SA#92-e
SP-210303
0018
-
F
Technological invariance
17.0.0
2021-12
SA#94-e
SP-211409
0020
1
F
Serving CSP change / inbound
17.1.0
2021-12
SA#94-e
SP-211409
0021
1
F
Location Translation
17.1.0
2022-03
SA#95-e
SP-220258
0022
1
F
Clarifications to the Definition of Invocation and Activation
17.2.0
2022-09
SA#97-e
SP-220753
0026
-
A
Correction of a misleading statement
18.0.0
2023-06
SA#100
SP-230443
0027
1
F
Latency Requirement
18.1.0
2023-06
SA#100
SP-230443
0028
1
A
Clarification on requirement for the delivery of only authorized information
18.1.0
2024-03
SA#103
SP-240140
0032
2
B
Location Dependent Interception for NTN and MBSR
19.0.0
2024-09
SA#105
SP-241075
0035
1
A
Traffic Policy requirements
19.1.0
2024-09
SA#105
SP-241075
0036
-
F
Clarification on buffering and suspension
19.1.0
2024-12
SA#106
SP-241454
0037
1
F
Cleanup and supplementation
19.2.0
2025-06
SA#108
SP-250444
0039
1
F
Update lifecycle model to refer to ETSI TS 104 007
19.3.0

